All right.
So in this lesson, we're going to install a special plugin or extension for chrome called Vue DevTools.
And Vue DevTools are going to be super helpful for helping us debug or understand our view application.
So open up Chrome and go to any site like Google and we're going to search for this view dev tools.
And the very first result here is the one we want.
It's going to be on the Chrome Web store.
So this is the official Vue.js dev tools for the Chrome Web browser.
You can see it has more than a million users.
And we're going to click, of course, the Add to Chrome button and that is going to install it.
It's going to give us this confirmation prompt and we can click add extension and that should automatically
add the extension.
You can see it added right here.
It's going to be this V right here.
In fact, let me go into here and pin it to my collection of extensions.
And you can see right now it's pretty grayed out and you're going to see this V light up in green.
Whenever we are on a valid view app, it's going to recognize that we have a valid view app.
It's going to kind of hook into that and then offer us a way to analyze that app.
So what I'm going to do is close out of this window and go back to my actual Vue.js app.
And just to be safe, what I'm going to do is do a full page refresh.
And in case that doesn't work, what I recommend you do is relaunch your Chrome browser entirely.
But once you do this, what we want to do is go to the inspector panel, the same panel where we can,
for example, see our HTML elements.
So one really easy way to get there is by clicking this collection of three dots right here, then more
tools and then developer tools.
All right.
So hopefully we are familiar with this section.
And what you'll notice is on this panel of tabs, you should see a new tab called Vue.
And that is what the View Dev tools have added for us.
So notice as I click this that that's going to launch the view dev tools and right here the V is also
going to be lit up in green.
So we can say we can see here the documentation.
Welcome to the view dev tools.
We can have a little tour.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to click next.
It's going to show you here the different various buttons.
We can not just see our components here, but we can also see things like the timeline, which is basically
the sequence of events.
As your app starts up, which component is rendered first, what it renders are user clicks, user events,
things like that.
Basically the kind of timeline of things that occur in your app as it launches and as it is being used
by the user continuing on, you can see the inspector.
This is going to be our favorite section throughout the course and we're going to explore the inspector
in just a second.
But this is basically going to be the tree like structure of components that are being rendered in your
app.
And if I click on, we can see some more additional settings.
I'm going to click next here.
You can explore this all in your free time, but just realize this is basically a good sign that everything
has been installed correctly.
So I'm going to click Skip right here.
And that brings us to The View Dev Tools.
And so what I want you to do here is make sure you have components selected right here and you'll notice
right here that we have a basic component hierarchy.
So remember, our app kicks everything off with the app component.
That is what we are rendering in mandatory not.
Yes, this is the component that is hooking into that div with an idea of app.
And so remember this is where the app launches and then our app component is itself rendering what we
call a child component, a component within itself.
And our app component is rendering the hello world component.
And that's what we see here.
And you can see it almost operates like a folder structure on your computer in that you can expand the
top level component to see everything that it renders as a child component.
And this relationship is going to proceed all the way down.
So if the Helloworld world component rendered its own to child components, we could then expand or
collapse.
Hello World to see its resulting components as well.
And in addition, a lot of helpful features related to each component are going to appear right here
on the right hand side.
Right now, we don't know what props is and later on, going to see a lot more different options appear
here on the right.
But the key takeaway is once we select any component, we're sort of going to see its configuration
on the right hand side and we're going to be able to alter that configuration in line here in this extension.
And then, of course, see the immediate changes in our view app on screen.
So the view dev tools are going to be a super helpful tool for debugging and understanding our View
app as we navigate through the course.
So make sure you install this helpful extension and I will see you in the next lesson.